Fix: update archive package text (#258)
pyOpenSci/software-peer-review: our-process/policies.md

## Submitting your package for review in other venues

We recommend submitting your package for review with pyOpenSci before:

- publishing to a package repository, such as `PyPI` and `conda-forge`;
- submitting a software paper describing the package to a journal.

Review feedback may result in major improvements and updates to your package,
including changes that could be break package functionality.

> We do not consider previous publication on `PyPI` or `conda-forge` or in other venues

Reviewer: Maybe reframe slightly to:
By applying reviewer or editor recommendations, even previously published packages on PyPI, conda-forge, or in other venues can improve their user's experience with future version of the package.

Author: excellent. i suspect this might be more relevant to R / cran (our language started with language in the rOpenSci guide! i've reworded as follows:

> Applying reviewer or editor recommendations to your package can improve your user's experience with future versions of your package 
> even if your package is already published on `PyPI` or `conda-forge`.

sufficient reason to not adopt reviewer or editor recommendations provided in
our review.

> Please do not submit your package for review while it or an associated manuscript is
> also under review at another venue, as this may result on conflicting requests
> for changes from two sets of reviewers.

### Publication with Journal of Open Source Software (JOSS)

If you have previously published your software package with JOSS, you can still
submit it to pyOpenSci for review. This provides:

- Increased visibility of your package as a vetted tool within the scientific python ecosystem
- We will also keep in touch with you as a maintainer to support long term maintenance. If you need to step down from maintaining your package we will help find a new maintainer and/or help sunset the tool.

> (coi)=

Reviewer: Does this have meaning or is it stray text?

Author: oh @willingc i didn't understand this question but now i do

`(coi)=` is a [myst target](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/cross-referencing.html#creating-explicit-targets). it allows me to create a short form link to the target location within the book rather than using a long header name. so i think this is a conflict of interest section target that i created.

We strongly suggest submitting your package for review with pyOpenSci before:

> - publishing on `PyPI` or `conda`;

Reviewer 2: I know this is just a formatting change, but should it say 
```suggestion
- publishing on `PyPI` (and/or `conda`);
```

Reviewer: Do you anticipate people to do this on every publish of a release to PyPI or `conda-forge`? Major releases or just once?

Reviewer: Perhaps:
- publishing to a package repository, such as `PyPI` and `conda-forge`

Author: ok just coming back to this now. looking at this language we definitely would rather the review come to us prior to a journal article (altho not required) but most packages are already on pypi in our experience and we've been reviewing since 2019. we have one package that was only on bioconda (for very good reason because of dependencies). we could easily leave the text as is.

But the reality is that people often want to get the package name they selected. so they will push to pypi as a placeholder until the full package is done. should we adjust the. language to loosen up where it should be published first?

i also like published to a package repository such as PyPI or conda-forge as it leaves space for both / either. 

thoughts @hamogu @willingc ?

Reviewer: Published to a package repository makes sense to me. @lwasser

## After Acceptance: Package Ownership and Maintenance

Package authors are expected to maintain and develop their software and retain
ownership of it after acceptance into pyOpenSci, as per the peer review agreement
acknowledged upon submission. This maintenance commitment should last for at
least two years. The pyOpenSci team will not interfere with day-to-day tool
maintenance unless explicitly added as collaborators.

If you need to step down from maintaining your accepted pyOpenSci package, please
promptly notify the pyOpenSci Editor-in-Chief or Software Review Lead. pyOpenSci
will collaborate with you to either:

- Find a new maintainer or
- Archive the tool, depending on what best suits your specific scientific Python
  package.

> We will reach out to our package maintainers each year to assess the status of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will reach out to our package maintainers each year to verify the package is actively maintained
```

> maintenance and to see if there are any updates we can highlight through our social channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and to see if there are any updates we can highlight through our social channels.
```

### Maintenance Tracking

pyOpenSci is building a system to track package metrics, including issues, pull requests, and dates of

> the last release and commits to the package repository. Based on activity in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the last release and last commit to the package repository. Based on activity in
```

the repository:

> - Packages not updated within 6 months will receive a flag on the website in the form of a small icon.

Reviewer 2: What is an "update"? Any change the repro? A tagged release?

If "update" just means "any activity in the repro e.g. discussion on some issue", I think it's fine. If "update" means "release a tagged version" 6 months is too short. Python itself releases major versions only every 18 months and numpy changes are typically small; 6 month is just one numpy release. So, a stable package without significant bugs might not need an "update" that often. I suggest 12 months.

Author: got it. i'm thinking of a way to "watch" for repo activity. do you think if "update" meant either an issue comment or a commit / release 6 months would be reasonable. or do you still think we should wait a full year?

i was thinking something along the lines of 

1. 6 months - no activity - we just have a yellow flag or some shade of green that is not the "good to go" green. 
2. maybe we could then have a 12 months flag that turns red and we check in or maybe it's just orange at that point. 
there's are just markers for us to see what's going on with the package, not to actually archive the package from our ecosystem. thoughts?

Reviewer 2: I think this suggestion is good. "shade of green" after 6 months of "nothing" (no issue, not code change, no release) and then "orange" after 12 month if there is no release (but even if there are issues and PRs. We follow-up manually and decide to give it another year or to archive). I think the decision to "archive" always warrants at least a cursory look by a human.

Author: absolutely. i just thought as our community of packages grows (rOpenSci is up to 300) it will be hard to manually track that. so we can automate the initial flags and always manually override as it makes sense. i'll adjust the language just a bit locally and will push a change

Author: new language - i'm pushing this up now!

> 
> pyOpenSci is building a system to track package metrics and activity, including issues, pull requests, and dates of
> the last release and last commit to the package repository. Activity is defined as a repository commit, pull request or release. 
> 
> We will 
> flag packages that haven't been updated on a 6-12 month time period based on activity as follows: 
> 
> - Packages with no activity for at least 6 months will receive a green flag on the website indicating that the package is still potentially maintained but no activity has been recorded in that time frame.  
> - Packages with no activity after 12 months will be flagged. At that time, pyOpenSci editorial team member will contact the package maintainers to evaluate the maintenance status of their package.

> - Packages not updated within 6 months will receive a flag on the website in the form of a small icon.

Reviewer: - Packages with low activity (no new commits or releases) in the past six months will be noted by a small icon flag on the website.

Reviewer 3: Do you have an idea what this icon would be? As @hamogu said, if a package is ultra-stable, 6-month period might be unfair for flaggin this package, especially if the icon can be something alarming like a ❌ .

Author: ok i hear you all. we dont' want to alarm. i think (but let's talk about this). 

1. a 6 month flag - it can even be a small green flag that's a different shade of green that just says - hey this package hasn't been updated in 6 month (updated meaning no new commits, releases or issue activity??) i know issue activity could be from outside users so perhaps that is not a good marker
2. 12 month flag - maybe the status goes to yellow. that is when we'd directly reach out to maintainers. 

thoughts on something like that?

> - After a year of no updates, the package will be flagged as potentially

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Packages with low activity (no new commits or releases) for the past 12 months will be flagged for potential archive.
```

>   archived. At this point, a member of the pyOpenSci team will contact the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A pyOpenSci team member will contact the
```

  package maintainers to assess the maintenance status and their intentions
  regarding the tool.

## Package Maintenance and Maintainer Responsiveness

If, after one year, package maintainers are unresponsive to requests for package
fixes or messages from the pyOpenSci team, we will initiate discussions about

> the package's future within the pyOpenSci ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the package's ongoing inclusion within the pyOpenSci ecosystem.
```

In cases where a package is heavily used by the community, we may collaborate

> with the community to identify a new maintainer. Otherwise, the package will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the community to identify reasonable next steps, such as assisting in finding a new maintainer. If a solution for ongoing package maintenance is not found, the package will be
```

archived within the pyOpenSci ecosystem.

If a sub-community decides to fork and maintain the package, we are open to

> working with the new maintainers to keep the package within our ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
working with the new maintainers to register the newly forked package within our ecosystem. The original package will be archived with a link to the new fork.
```

any time. We also ask maintainers that they get in touch with us if they do need
to step down from maintaining a tool.

### Requesting package removal from the pyOpenSci ecosystem

In the unlikely scenario that a contributor of a package requests removal of their

> package from our ecosystem, we retain the right to archive a version of the package in our

Reviewer: ```suggestion
package from our ecosystem, we retain the right to offer the currently released version of the package in our
```

Author: @willingc question about this fix. i like the language but wonder - does this suggest that we are taking on maintenance of the package in this case? i guess i worry about that because we don't have the capacity to maintain new packages like rOpenSci does. But we might want to create an archive of the repository for safe keeping in the form of a fork, etc ? thoughts?

Reviewer: @lwasser I think it makes sense to be explicit about what we are doing. I don't think it is wise to imply that we will maintain any project. I was thinking along the lines of making a copy of the current release at the time of removal.

Author: ahhh ok . How about language like:
***
> we retain the right to provide an archived copy of the package, in it's most recently release state the currently released version of the package in our ... 

:::{important}
pyOpenSci will never take on maintenance responsibilities of a community created package. But we will create archival copies of packages and support finding new maintainers for existing unmaintained packages as it makes sense. 
:::

***

Author: i took this out of context - 

it now reads

> In the unlikely scenario that a contributor of a package requests removal of their
> package from our ecosystem, we retain the right offer the last / most recently released version of that package in our ecosystem for archival purposes only.

i forgot it said for archival purposes only and the way the gui presents things it only shows what has changed! this is fixed locally now
